README.md, before:

# Markfy - Personal Bookmarks Manager

**Live Demo**: [https://markfy.vercel.app](https://markfy.vercel.app)

A modern, full-stack bookmarks application built with Next.js. Save, organize, and manage your personal links with powerful search, sorting, and pagination features.

## Features

- **Bookmark Management**: Add, edit, delete, and favorite bookmarks
- **Smart Search**: Real-time search by title with instant results
- **Flexible Sorting**: Sort by newest, oldest, title, or favorites
- **Pagination**: Navigate through large bookmark collections efficiently
- **Responsive Design**: Works seamlessly on desktop and mobile
- **Loading States**: Smooth user experience with proper loading indicators
- **Error Handling**: Graceful error recovery and user feedback

## Tech Stack

- **Next.js 15** with App Router
- **TypeScript** for type safety
- **SQLite** (development) / **PostgreSQL** (production)
- **Prisma** ORM for database operations
- **Tailwind CSS** for styling
- **Zod** for data validation

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18 or later
- npm or yarn

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd markfy
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Set up environment variables**
   ```bash
   cp env.test.example .env.local
   ```
   
   The default configuration uses SQLite:
   ```env
   DATABASE_URL="file:./prisma/dev.db"
   ```

4. **Initialize the database**
   ```bash
   # Create database tables
   npm run db:push
   
   # Seed with sample data
   npm run db:seed
   ```

5. **Start the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

6. **Open the application**
   Navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

## Sample Data

The application comes with a seed script that populates the database with sample bookmarks.

Run the seed script:
```bash
npm run db:seed
```

## API Reference

### Endpoints

```
GET    /api/links              # List bookmarks (supports pagination, search, sort)
POST   /api/links              # Create new bookmark
GET    /api/links/[id]         # Get single bookmark
PATCH  /api/links/[id]         # Update bookmark
DELETE /api/links/[id]         # Delete bookmark
PATCH  /api/links/[id]/favorite # Toggle favorite status
```

### Query Parameters for `/api/links`

- `page`: Page number (default: 1)
- `limit`: Items per page (default: 10, max: 100)
- `search`: Search term (searches title, description, URL)
- `sort`: Sort order (`newest`, `oldest`, `title`, `favorites`)

### Example Usage

```bash
# Get first page of bookmarks, sorted by newest
GET /api/links?page=1&sort=newest

# Search for "react" bookmarks
GET /api/links?search=react&sort=title

# Get favorited bookmarks only
GET /api/links?sort=favorites
```

## Database Schema

```prisma
model Link {
  id          String   @id @default(cuid())
  title       String
  url         String   @unique
  description String?
  isFavorite  Boolean  @default(false)
  createdAt   DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt   DateTime @updatedAt
  
  @@index([title])      # Optimizes search queries
  @@index([createdAt])  # Optimizes sorting by date
  @@index([isFavorite]) # Optimizes favorite filtering
}
```

## Available Scripts

```bash
# Development
npm run dev              # Start development server
npm run build           # Build for production
npm run start           # Start production server

# Database
npm run db:push         # Push schema changes to database
npm run db:seed         # Seed database with sample data
npm run db:studio       # Open Prisma Studio (database GUI)

# Testing
npm run test            # Run unit tests
npm run test:e2e        # Run end-to-end tests
```

## Architecture & Design Decisions

### Technology Choices

- **Next.js App Router**: Provides seamless full-stack integration with built-in API routes and server components
- **Prisma ORM**: Offers type safety, automatic migrations, and database abstraction
- **SQLite for Development**: Zero-configuration setup, perfect for local development
- **Dual API Approach**: Server Actions for UI interactions, REST API for external integrations
- **Feature-based Organization**: Domain-driven structure for better maintainability

### Database Design

- **Unique URLs**: Prevents duplicate bookmarks automatically
- **CUID IDs**: Better performance than UUIDs, URL-safe identifiers
- **Strategic Indexing**: Optimized for common query patterns (search, sort, favorites)
- **Flexible Schema**: Optional description field accommodates various bookmark types

### User Experience

- **Debounced Search**: 300ms delay reduces API calls while maintaining responsiveness
- **URL State Management**: Search and sort parameters persist in URL for bookmarkable states
- **Optimistic Updates**: Immediate UI feedback for better perceived performance
- **Loading Skeletons**: Enhanced UX during data loading

## Production Deployment

### Environment Setup

1. **Database Configuration**:
   - Set up managed PostgreSQL (Vercel Postgres, Supabase, or Neon)
   - Update `DATABASE_URL` environment variable
   - Run `npm run db:push` to create production schema

2. **Environment Variables**:
   ```env
   NODE_ENV=production
   DATABASE_URL=postgresql://user:password@host:port/database
   ```

## Testing

Comprehensive testing suite including:

- **Unit Tests**: Business logic and utility functions
- **Integration Tests**: API endpoints and database operations
- **End-to-End Tests**: Complete user workflows

```bash
npm run test            # Unit and integration tests
npm run test:e2e:full   # End-to-end tests with database setup
```

## License

ISC License

Commit message:

Enhance README.md with environment setup and troubleshooting guidance
- Added instructions for creating a `.env` file with database URLs.
- Included troubleshooting section addressing common issues related to Prisma and environment variables.
- Updated database initialization steps to include Prisma client generation.

README.md, after:

# Markfy - Personal Bookmarks Manager

**Live Demo**: [https://markfy.vercel.app](https://markfy.vercel.app)

A modern, full-stack bookmarks application built with Next.js. Save, organize, and manage your personal links with powerful search, sorting, and pagination features.

## Features

- **Bookmark Management**: Add, edit, delete, and favorite bookmarks
- **Smart Search**: Real-time search by title with instant results
- **Flexible Sorting**: Sort by newest, oldest, title, or favorites
- **Pagination**: Navigate through large bookmark collections efficiently
- **Responsive Design**: Works seamlessly on desktop and mobile
- **Loading States**: Smooth user experience with proper loading indicators
- **Error Handling**: Graceful error recovery and user feedback

## Tech Stack

- **Next.js 15** with App Router
- **TypeScript** for type safety
- **SQLite** (development) / **PostgreSQL** (production)
- **Prisma** ORM for database operations
- **Tailwind CSS** for styling
- **Zod** for data validation

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18 or later
- npm or yarn

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd markfy
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Set up environment variables**
   
   Create a `.env` file in the project root:
   ```bash
   echo 'DATABASE_URL="file:./prisma/dev.db"
   TEST_DATABASE_URL="file:./prisma/test.db"' > .env
   ```
   
   Or manually create `.env` with:
   ```env
   DATABASE_URL="file:./prisma/dev.db"
   TEST_DATABASE_URL="file:./prisma/test.db"
   ```

4. **Initialize the database**
   ```bash
   # Generate Prisma client (usually runs automatically after npm install)
   npx prisma generate
   
   # Create database tables
   npm run db:push
   
   # Seed with sample data
   npm run db:seed
   ```

5. **Start the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

6. **Open the application**
   Navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

## Sample Data

The application comes with a seed script that populates the database with sample bookmarks.

Run the seed script:
```bash
npm run db:seed
```

## API Reference

### Endpoints

```
GET    /api/links              # List bookmarks (supports pagination, search, sort)
POST   /api/links              # Create new bookmark
GET    /api/links/[id]         # Get single bookmark
PATCH  /api/links/[id]         # Update bookmark
DELETE /api/links/[id]         # Delete bookmark
PATCH  /api/links/[id]/favorite # Toggle favorite status
```

### Query Parameters for `/api/links`

- `page`: Page number (default: 1)
- `limit`: Items per page (default: 10, max: 100)
- `search`: Search term (searches title, description, URL)
- `sort`: Sort order (`newest`, `oldest`, `title`, `favorites`)

### Example Usage

```bash
# Get first page of bookmarks, sorted by newest
GET /api/links?page=1&sort=newest

# Search for "react" bookmarks
GET /api/links?search=react&sort=title

# Get favorited bookmarks only
GET /api/links?sort=favorites
```

## Database Schema

```prisma
model Link {
  id          String   @id @default(cuid())
  title       String
  url         String   @unique
  description String?
  isFavorite  Boolean  @default(false)
  createdAt   DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt   DateTime @updatedAt
  
  @@index([title])      # Optimizes search queries
  @@index([createdAt])  # Optimizes sorting by date
  @@index([isFavorite]) # Optimizes favorite filtering
}
```

## Available Scripts

```bash
# Development
npm run dev              # Start development server
npm run build           # Build for production
npm run start           # Start production server

# Database
npm run db:push         # Push schema changes to database
npm run db:seed         # Seed database with sample data
npm run db:studio       # Open Prisma Studio (database GUI)

# Testing
npm run test            # Run unit tests
npm run test:e2e        # Run end-to-end tests
```

## Architecture & Design Decisions

### Technology Choices

- **Next.js App Router**: Provides seamless full-stack integration with built-in API routes and server components
- **Prisma ORM**: Offers type safety, automatic migrations, and database abstraction
- **SQLite for Development**: Zero-configuration setup, perfect for local development
- **Dual API Approach**: Server Actions for UI interactions, REST API for external integrations
- **Feature-based Organization**: Domain-driven structure for better maintainability

### Database Design

- **Unique URLs**: Prevents duplicate bookmarks automatically
- **CUID IDs**: Better performance than UUIDs, URL-safe identifiers
- **Strategic Indexing**: Optimized for common query patterns (search, sort, favorites)
- **Flexible Schema**: Optional description field accommodates various bookmark types

### User Experience

- **Debounced Search**: 300ms delay reduces API calls while maintaining responsiveness
- **URL State Management**: Search and sort parameters persist in URL for bookmarkable states
- **Optimistic Updates**: Immediate UI feedback for better perceived performance
- **Loading Skeletons**: Enhanced UX during data loading

## Production Deployment

### Environment Setup

1. **Database Configuration**:
   - Set up managed PostgreSQL (Vercel Postgres, Supabase, or Neon)
   - Update `DATABASE_URL` environment variable
   - Run `npm run db:push` to create production schema

2. **Environment Variables**:
   ```env
   NODE_ENV=production
   DATABASE_URL=postgresql://user:password@host:port/database
   ```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**"PrismaClientKnownRequestError: The table 'main.Link' does not exist"**
- Run `npx prisma generate` to regenerate the Prisma client
- Run `npm run db:push` to create the database tables

**"Environment variable not found: DATABASE_URL"**
- Ensure you have a `.env` file with the correct `DATABASE_URL`
- Use the command from step 3 in the Quick Start section

**Prisma client out of sync**
- Run `npx prisma generate` after schema changes
- This usually happens automatically via `postinstall` script

## Testing

Comprehensive testing suite including:

- **Unit Tests**: Business logic and utility functions
- **Integration Tests**: API endpoints and database operations
- **End-to-End Tests**: Complete user workflows

```bash
npm run test            # Unit and integration tests
npm run test:e2e:full   # End-to-end tests with database setup
```

## License

ISC License
